# How to Contribute

The CDK is an open source project open to contribution from anyone who chooses
to do so. Anyone may contribute anything to the project they wish. This
includes, but is not limited to: code, build system enhancements, documentation,
examples, and supporting tools. There are, however, a few guidelines, as well as
even fewer hard rules we ask you to follow.

## Join the cdk-dev group

Join the [cdk-dev](https://groups.google.com/a/cloudera.org/forum/#!forum/cdk-dev)
group for discussion of CDK development.

## Complete a Contributor License Agreement

In order to accept _any_ contribution, the contributor _must_ complete and
return a _Contributor License Agreement_, or CLA. Separate CLAs exist for
individuals (an _individual contributor license agreement_, or ICLA) and
corporations (a CCLA).  The CLA grants a copyright and patent license to
Cloudera, and users of the software, states that you are legally entitled to
grant such a license, as well as other important stuff. See the
[Cloudera ICLA][cloudera-icla] and [Cloudera CCLA][cloudera-ccla] files included
with this software for all of the details.

Completed CLAs may be emailed to <cla@cloudera.com>, faxed, or snail mailed to
Cloudera.

[cloudera-icla]: cloudera_icla.pdf "Cloudera ICLA"
[cloudera-ccla]: cloudera_ccla.pdf "Cloudera CCLA"

## Create a Pull Request

This project uses Github. Pull requests are the easiest form of contribution to
accept and preferred. If this sounds like Klingon to you, Github has an
excellent description of [using pull requests][gh-pr]. We follow the _Fork &
Pull_ model described in the Github documentation.

[gh-pr]: http://help.github.com/articles/using-pull-requests "Github - Using Pull Requests"

## Tips

Contributions are strongly encouraged. It's the easiest way to get the features
you want into the code, and fast. However, the project maintainers are tasked
with developing software for many people with diverse requirements and, as a
result, may not accept all contributions. Here are some tips for ensuring a
contribution is accepted.

* Think about everyone.

  It's really important to remember that many people use this software.
  Features, improvements, or changes that do not apply to a wide audience may
  not make sense to include in the project. Put yourself in other people's shoes
  and ask if this is something that is useful to them.

* Follow existing style and standards.

  It's critical that the code base, docs, and examples behave and look the same.
  If some parts of the code use different libraries to do the same thing, have
  slightly different semantics or guarantees, use different naming conventions,
  or track different standards, it's very likely your contribution can't be
  accepted. Put yourself in the shoes of a new contributor; they should only
  have to learn a single way of doing things.

* Accept feedback and provide rationale.

  It's likely that you'll receive feedback on your contribution, especially
  those who are new to contributing to open source projects. Don't panic! We're
  all very nice people. Keep a few things in mind:

  * If we disagree, help us understand the rationale behind a decision. Maybe
    we're missing something.
  * Questions are usually just questions, and are not meant to question your
    ability. It's just as awkward for us to ask as it is for you to "defend"
    your decisions. Bear with us, and remember that our goal is to serve the
    larger community of users.
  * It helps to detach your idea from your implementation. Sometimes, you may be
    asked to make changes to your implementation, but everyone agrees that the
    idea is great. Be open to that.
  * Many times feedback is subjective. Words like "elegant," "simple," and
    "easy" are often thrown around, but hard to define. It's important to
    recognize that one person's "simple" is another person's "complex," except
    in the case of "simply complex."
  * We are incredibly grateful you took the time to contribute, even if we
    decide we can't accept your code.

* Disagree and commit

  Sometimes, there's no compromise, no middle ground. Sometimes, people are just
  going to see things differently. Some people like baseball; not everything in
  life makes sense. When this happens, please understand we're all just trying
  to do what we think is right. If a contribution is rejected, or something
  doesn't make sense, tell us, accept the decision, and move on.

  Watch this: <http://ecorner.stanford.edu/authorMaterialInfo.html?mid=1642>

  Now watch it again: <http://ecorner.stanford.edu/authorMaterialInfo.html?mid=1642>
